Let envRec be env's EnvironmentRecord.
Assert: envRec is a global Environment Record.
Let lexNames be the LexicallyDeclaredNames of script.
Let varNames be the VarDeclaredNames of script.
For each name in lexNames, do
If envRec.HasVarDeclaration(name) is true, throw a SyntaxError exception.
If envRec.HasLexicalDeclaration(name) is true, throw a SyntaxError exception.
Let hasRestrictedGlobal be ? envRec.HasRestrictedGlobalProperty(name).
If hasRestrictedGlobal is true, throw a SyntaxError exception.
For each name in varNames, do
If envRec.HasLexicalDeclaration(name) is true, throw a SyntaxError exception.
Let varDeclarations be the VarScopedDeclarations of script.
Let functionsToInitialize be a new empty List.
Let declaredFunctionNames be a new empty List.
For each d in varDeclarations, in reverse list order, do
If d is neither a VariableDeclaration nor a ForBinding nor a BindingIdentifier, then
Assert: d is either a FunctionDeclaration, a GeneratorDeclaration, an AsyncFunctionDeclaration, or an AsyncGeneratorDeclaration.
NOTE: If there are multiple function declarations for the same name, the last declaration is used.
Let fn be the sole element of the BoundNames of d.
If fn is not an element of declaredFunctionNames, then
Let fnDefinable be ? envRec.CanDeclareGlobalFunction(fn).
If fnDefinable is false, throw a TypeError exception.
Append fn to declaredFunctionNames.
Insert d as the first element of functionsToInitialize.
Let declaredVarNames be a new empty List.
For each d in varDeclarations, do
If d is a VariableDeclaration, a ForBinding, or a BindingIdentifier, then
For each String vn in the BoundNames of d, do
If vn is not an element of declaredFunctionNames, then
Let vnDefinable be ? envRec.CanDeclareGlobalVar(vn).
If vnDefinable is false, throw a TypeError exception.
If vn is not an element of declaredVarNames, then
Append vn to declaredVarNames.
NOTE: No abnormal terminations occur after this algorithm step if the global object is an ordinary object. However, if the global object is a Proxy exotic object it may exhibit behaviours that cause abnormal terminations in some of the following steps.
NOTE: Annex B.3.3.2 adds additional steps at this point.
Let lexDeclarations be the LexicallyScopedDeclarations of script.
For each element d in lexDeclarations, do
NOTE: Lexically declared names are only instantiated here but not initialized.
For each element dn of the BoundNames of d, do
If IsConstantDeclaration of d is true, then
Perform ? envRec.CreateImmutableBinding(dn, true).
Else,
Perform ? envRec.CreateMutableBinding(dn, false).
For each Parse Node f in functionsToInitialize, do
Let fn be the sole element of the BoundNames of f.
Let fo be the result of performing InstantiateFunctionObject for f with argument env.
Perform ? envRec.CreateGlobalFunctionBinding(fn, fo, false).
For each String vn in declaredVarNames, in list order, do
Perform ? envRec.CreateGlobalVarBinding(vn, false).
Return NormalCompletion(empty).